I built the Navalmanack entirely out of transcripts, Tweets, and talks Naval has shared. Every attempt is made to present Naval in his own words. However, there are a few important points. 

→ The transcripts have been edited for clarity and brevity (multiple times). 

→ Not all sources are primary (some excerpts are from other writers quoting Naval). 

→ I can’t be 100 percent certain of every source’s authenticity. 

→ Concepts and interpretations change over time, medium, and context. 

→ Please verify phrasing with a primary source before citing Naval from this text. 

→ Please interpret generously. 

By definition, everything in this book is taken out of context. Interpretations will change over time. Read and interpret generously. Understand the original intent may be different than your interpretation in a different time, medium, format, and context. 

In the process of creating this book, I may have mistakenly re-contextualized, misinterpreted, or misunderstood things. As content passed through time, space, and medium, some phrasing may have shifted in flight. Every effort has been made to maintain the original intent, but errors are (very) possible. 

Interviews have been transcribed, edited, rearranged, and re-edited for readability. I did my best to keep Naval’s ideas in his own words. 

All brilliance in this book is Naval’s; any mistakes are mine. 

TWEETS AND TWEETSTORMS 

Tweets are formatted like pull quotes but are unique content. I use them to summarize or punctuate an idea from the main prose. 

This formatting shows I’m quoting a tweet. 

Tweetstorms are connected tweets, formatted like this:

This is the first tweet in a tweetstorm. 

↓ 

This is the second tweet. Tweetstorms are longer series of tweets all threaded together, similar to a blog post. 

BOLDED QUESTIONS 

Many excerpts are from interviews by fantastic creators like Shane Parrish, Sarah Lacy, Joe Rogan, and Tim Ferriss. The questions are bolded. For simplicity and continuity, I do not distinguish various interviewers from each other. 

NON-NARRATIVE 

This is a choose-your-own adventure book. Jump to anything that interests you and skip anything that doesn’t. 

LOOK IT UP 

If you find a word or concept you’re not familiar with, look it up. Or, read on to find more context. Some referenced ideas are expanded upon later in the book. 

CITATIONS 

Citations (like [1]) indicate the end of an excerpt. I’ve done my best to maintain context for smooth reading. Sources are in the appendix for reference. Some sources appear many times and do not appear in order.